Now, let's discuss the Agile Scrum process groups in this section.
Here's the definition of process group.
A process group denotes a collection of one or more processes.
Not too complicated, certainly.
An example is the five phases of traditional project management that we covered,
they're also known as process groups.
Within each one of those process groups, there were other subprocesses.
Now let me introduce you to the Agile Scrum process groups.
And then later in this module,
we're going to compare the two process groups between
the Agile Scrum and the traditional.
With traditional project management, we had five process groups,
conception and initiation, planning, execution,
performance and monitoring, and lastly, closure.
With Agile there are four process groups.
And here they are.
The first, projects, the second, releases,
the third, iterations, and the fourth, daily work.
Now, let's go through each of these in detail in the next four slides.
Agile projects are kicked off with the following.
Develop vision and product roadmap.
This is where you define the overall project goal.
Select the Scrum team.
That includes the Product Owner, the development team and the Scrum Master.
Perform high-level release planning, very high!
Subject to change but a general idea.
This would also include a timeframe for release delivery.
Determine your product backlog definition,
not so much the items themselves,
what this means is how are you going to manage and maintain the backlog,
what columns of information will you need.
Identify high level features and functionality.
Again, very high level, subject to change but a general idea.
These items can be your starter backlog list.
When the project is complete,
you will return to the project process group and perform project wrap-up.
That might include things like stakeholders getting
together and talking about how it went.
Customers might come as well, do project reflection,
recommend improvements, if you need them.
And maybe handle any sort of contractual
administrative closure that you might need.
Now,
there may also be other items to discuss in project
planning such as project start-up.
Elements that would be part of project start-up may be the environment set-up.
You might need computers, architectural documentation,
coding standards and all sorts of things that you might also need.
Do what you think needs to be accomplished to prepare the team.
Projects have releases, that is,
a project will be made up of a series of product releases.
For each release planning will be organized.
Key team members attend.
The Product Owner, the Scrum Master and the development team.
The planning produces a release plan, a guide for the team.
If you had 10 releases in a project,
you would have had 10 release planning sessions.
The release planning will produce a list of features that is a product backlog,
the team will prioritize and estimate each item for this release,
goals and assumptions,
determine if there are any goals to be accomplished and also are there any
assumptions that need to be addressed for this release.
As with the project process group,
when the release is complete you'll return to the release
process group and perform release wrap-up.
This includes key members.
Here you will recommend improvements that you want to leverage in
the next release or across other Agile projects.
Now let's see what makes up a release.
Releases have iterations.
There are multiple iterations per release just as there
are multiple releases per project.
Iterations are planned, that is,
the list of features is decided that will be part of the iteration.
Basically, an iteration is a subset of the release.
An iteration is like a timebox of work.
A sprint is equal to an iteration and we talked about that in the last module.
Some iteration characteristics are: contains a list of
features to build and by the way, they are chosen by the team on the sprint,
tasks are assigned to all team members and a sprint or
iteration is a fixed duration of time and may range from one
to four weeks in duration though, two or three seems pretty typical.
They have a fixed start date, for example May 1st and a fixed end date,
for example, May 22nd.
Now let's see what comprises an iteration.
Daily work is what the team does everyday within an iteration.
Several days of work make up an iteration or sprint.
The team will be working on assigned features,
each team member on one or more tasks,
you will conduct daily stand-ups to share status in progress,
there'll be meetings with the Scrum Master,
as needed, there'll be meetings with the Product Owners,
as needed and you'll probably use some automated and visual
tools to show features in the backlog, in work,
and QA, and complete, et cetera, such as the tool JIRA.
Then the team completes work in the iteration, that is, a sprint.
Now a note.
What I have shared with you is not perfect or the way to do it.
Every company has their own flavor and that is what's great about Agile.
Adapt it to your environment and do not be afraid to tweak it to meet your needs.